Expand file analysis framework docs (#167)
zeek/zeek-docs: frameworks/file-analysis.rst

===============

Zeek supports customized file analysis via `file analyzers` that users can
attach to observed files. You can attach analyzers selectively to individual
files, or register them for auto-attachment under certain conditions. Once

> attached, file analyzers start receiving the contents of files as Zeek extracts

Reviewer: Could we avoid "extract" here steer clear of the confusion with the file-extraction part implying persistent storage? Maybe "observe" as you used in the file extraction example further down?

```suggestion
attached, file analyzers start receiving the contents of files as Zeek observes them on the network.
```

Author: I wondered about that too. :-) I initially used "parsed" and then reverted it, trying to minimize changes. I'll tweak it.

   new file, FakNcS1Jfe01uljb3
   file_hash, FakNcS1Jfe01uljb3, md5, 397168fd09991a0e712254df7bc639ac

File extraction
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The following example sets up simplistic extraction of observed files to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example sets up extraction of observed files to
```

disk:

.. code-block:: zeek

    global idx: count = 0;

    event file_new(f: fa_file)
        {
        Files::add_analyzer(f, Files::ANALYZER_EXTRACT,
                            [$extract_filename=fmt("file-%04d", ++idx)]);
        }

The file extraction analyzer now writes the content of each observed file to a
separate file on disk. The output file name results from concatenating the
:zeek:see:`FileExtract::prefix` (normally ``./extract_files/``) and the
enumerated ``file-NNNN`` strings.

In a production setting you'll likely want to include additional information in
the output, for example from state attached to the provided file record. The
Zeek distribution ships with a starting point for such approaches: the
``policy/frameworks/files/extract-all-files.zeek`` script. For additional
configurability, take a look at the `file-extraction
<https://github.com/hosom/file-extraction>`_ Zeek package.

> Content analysis

Reviewer: Seems Script-Level would be good in the heading? Maybe "Script-Layer File Data Access" as the first sentence indicates?

Author: Good one, yeah.

allow you to process it: user-provided `stream events` receive new file content
as supplied by connection-oriented protocols, while `chunk events` receive
observed data as provided by protocols that do not feature stream semantics.

The following example manually computes the SHA256 hash of each observed file by
building up hash state and feeding streamed file content into the hash
computation. When Zeek removes a file's state (because it has fully observed it,
or perhaps because its state is timing out), it prints the resulting hash to the
console:

.. code-block:: zeek

    global hashstate: table[string] of opaque of sha256;

    event file_stream(f: fa_file, data: string)
        {
        if ( f$id !in hashstate )
            hashstate[f$id] = sha256_hash_init();

        sha256_hash_update(hashstate[f$id], data);
        }

    event file_new(f: fa_file)
        {
        Files::add_analyzer(f, Files::ANALYZER_DATA_EVENT, [$stream_event=file_stream]);
        }

    event file_state_remove(f: fa_file)
        {
        if ( f$id in hashstate )
            {
            print(sha256_hash_finish(hashstate[f$id]));
            delete hashstate[f$id];
            }

>         }

Reviewer: There have been some perf issues with ANALZYER_DATA_EVENT in production systems where the analyzer wasn't registered. Think multiple GB files triggering lots of events (and maybe only the first few kb are actually of interest).

It is also fairly dangerous to start buffering the data in script-land just because one can.

Not sure these need to be pointed out, but leaving the comment anyway.

Author: Ah, right — thank you for flagging that. I'll add that.

I'll also add a bit about the fact that protocol analyzers can redef additional state onto the file record, like in `base/protocols/http/entities.zeek`.
